---
bg: "photo15.jpg"
layout: post
title: "HPE CVPR2019"
crawlertitle: papers on human pose estimation on CVPR2019
summary: papers on human pose estimation on CVPR2019
date: 2019-06-26 19:00:00 +0800
categories: "paper"
tags: "human pose estimation"
author: "vpromise"
---


*papers on human pose estimation on CVPR2019*

---

# HPE CVPR2019

All the papers are available at [**CVPR 2019 open access**](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/CVPR2019.py)


*Table*
- [HPE CVPR2019](#HPE-CVPR2019)
  - [Does Learning Specific Features for Related Parts Help Human Pose Estimation?](#Does-Learning-Specific-Features-for-Related-Parts-Help-Human-Pose-Estimation)
    - [Abstract](#Abstract)
    - [Contribution](#Contribution)
  - [Fast Human Pose Estimation Feng](#Fast-Human-Pose-Estimation-Feng)
    - [Contribution](#Contribution-1)

## Does Learning Specific Features for Related Parts Help Human Pose Estimation?

### Abstract
- sharing mechanism can lead to negative transfer and deteriorate the performance.
- ankles and knees are highly related, is incorporated into the model, which helps resolve ambiguities in HPE.
- sharing features for those unrelated or weakly related tasks can deteriorate their performances – a phenomenon called negative transfer.

### Contribution 
- All previous CNN-based HPE approaches take it for granted that features should be fully shared for all body parts. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to identify the problem of this practice and address it via a simple and effective part-based branching network. 
- This is the first attempt to exploit the probability distri-butions of part locations and their mutual information to group related parts. We show it is more effective than an alternative approach based on the human body structure. 
- Our model has an outstanding advantage on locating occluded parts, which is the greatest challenge for ex-isting methods. We also report new state-of-the-art re-sults on two well-known benchmark datasets.

## Fast Human Pose Estimation Feng

### Contribution
- We investigate the under-studied human pose model efficiency problem, opposite to the existing attempts mostly focusing on improving the accuracy performance alone at high costs of model inference at deployment. This is a critical problem to be addressed for scaling up the existing deep pose estimation methods to real applications.
- We propose a Fast Pose Distillation (FPD) model training method enabling to more effectively train extremely small human pose CNN networks. This is based on an idea of knowledge distillation that have been successfully exploited in inducing object image categorisation deep models. In particular, we derive a pose knowledge distillation learning objective to transfer the latent knowledge from a pre-trained larger teacher model to a tiny target pose model (to be deployed in test time). This aims to pursue the best model performance given very limited computational budgets using only a small fraction (less than 20%) of cost required by similarly strong alternatives.
- We design a lightweight Hourglass network capable of constructing more cost-effective pose estimation CNN models while retaining sufficient learning capacity for allowing satisfactory accuracy rates. This is achieved by extensively examining the redundancy degree of existing state-of-the-art pose CNN architecture designs.